Hi, my name is Brian Caffo and
welcome to this Statistical Inference
Coursera Data Science class.
In this class,
we are gonna learn about the process
of formal statistical inference.
So I define statistical
inference as the process of
generating conclusions about
a population from a noisy sample.
Without statistical influence,
we're simply living within our data.
With statistical inference,
we're trying to generate new knowledge.
We're trying to extend beyond our
data to a population to give answers.
With statistical inference,
our estimators have actual
things that they're estimating.
And in fact, I would say statistical
inference is the only formal system of
inference that we have.
Let me give you some examples.
Hopefully you'll understand
what I'm talking about.
Consider trying to predict who's going
to win an election on election day,
given a sample of likely voters today.
Well, there our sample is a noisy dataset.
Some people might not actually
vote on election day.
Some people might change their mind
as to what they're going to say now.
Or some people be deliberately misleading.
So we'd like to try to draw
together all that uncertainty and
use that to predict who's
gonna win on election day.
When a weather man tells you the
probability that it rains tomorrow is 70%,
they're trying to use the historical data
that is particularly the most recent data,
to predict tomorrow's weather and
actually attach a probability to it.
That probability refers to a population.
An example that's very close to
the research I do is trying to predict
what areas of the brain activate
when we put them in an fMRI scanner.
In that case, people are doing a task
while they're in the scanner, for example,
tapping their finger or
something like that.
And we like'd to compare when they're
tapping their finger, to when they're not.
And try to figure out what areas of the
brain are associated with finger tapping.
That's just one example there.
Again, these are all very different
aspects of statistical inference.
They're very different in the ways
in which we're thinking about and
modeling the randomness.
And so I think you'll probably get
the sense that statistical inference is
a kind of challenging
subject because of that.
One thing I want to mention briefly and
hopefully get out of the way as early as
possible is the idea that there's many
different modes of statistical inference.
And, in fact,
there's a recent New York Times article
that described the difference between
so-called Bayesians and frequentists,
two different kinds of
inferential paradigms.
And I think when you first come into this
discipline, you might even be surprised
that there can even be more than
one way to think about statistics.
But, in fact, even amongst so
called Bayesians and
even amongst so-called frequentists,
there's all different variations and
shades of grays, and there's many
a Bayesians that I would say just really
behaved like frequentists and so on.
So, what we're gonna do in this class to
make it as straightforward as possible is
to pick a very particular paradigm,
this frequentist paradigm,
that's the one that's most commonly taught
in introductory statistics classics.
The reason I elected to do
this is because it's the most
likely one that you'll
encounter in practice.
And also, I think once you've develop some
of these fundamentals, you'll be able to
extend this knowledge to lots of different
areas and you'll be able to build on it.
So we wanna build a good foundation.
We're going to do it with sort
of frequency style thinking.
What I mean by frequency
style thinking is,
we're gonna think of probability
like how we think of gambling.
So I'm gonna think the probability that
a coin winds up as heads is gonna be,
if I were to flip it maybe infinitely many
times, and there's all this randomness
that I'm thinking about in the coin flip,
and the proportion of heads would really
define a sort of intrinsic
probability of the head to the coin.
That's a frequentist style of thinking.
It's sort of the idea that we can repeat
an experiment over and over and over again
and the percentage of times that something
happens defines that population parameter.
There is more than one way to
think about probability, and
more than one way to
think about inference.
But we're gonna focus on specifically
frequency styling inference like that.
Like the coin flipping and
all the gambling experiments that we're
very familiar with and we're gonna
leave all that other stuff to the side.
In the notes, I give you some examples of
all different sorts of topics that you
can try to build on after you've mastered
some of the tools from this class.
Let me give you just a quick example.
There's a thriving community now
that's trying to figure out how can
we really infer causation,
not just association, but
real causation using noisy statistical
data, and that's a very deep problem.
And what they'd like to do is enumerate
the assumptions and a set of tools and
statistical study designs
that will lead us to
develop causality rather than association.
That requires us to do things like
define what we mean by something causing
something else.
It's a very deep field and at any rate,
that's one example of the couple I give
in the notes where you can build on this.
For example, survey sampling,
epidemiological studies and so on.
But again, what I'd like to do in a very
short class like this is really focus on
building our foundation in basic frequency
style probability models and testing.
So I'd like to welcome you to the class.
The way that you want to
think about this class is,
if you're sort of keeping pace with it,
it's a four-week class.
But if you're struggling
with some of the concepts,
don't feel badly about having to
extend this class out, take it twice.
This is deep stuff and it's unusual
I think, and it's not the math and
it's not the,
I know many mathematicians who
really struggle when they first start
thinking about statistical inference cuz
it's just a different way of
thinking about the world.
So think of this as a four-week class.
And if you're getting it, if you're not,
take a little bit more time.
There's four quizzes.
There's one project.
The project, I really think drives home
some of the central ideas of inference.
So I hope that you would spend a fair
amount of time thinking about the project
because it really drives home what we
mean by sampling distributions and
what is meant by frequency
style statistical inference.
The quizzes will be auto-graded.
They're, ideally,
due at the end of each week but
you can attempt all the quizzes
from the start of the class.
I've put out some homework problems and
I've linked those homework problems to
the specific quiz questions so you can
practice before you even try the quiz.
So welcome to the class.
I'm really enthusiastic
about teaching you.
I really like inference.
It's my favorite subject.
I've been studying statistical
inference for probably 15 years now.
And every time I think about it,
I learn something new.
And so I hope you can really
dive into this deep and
incredibly important subject with me.